_your zenodo badge here_

# Kyle-etal_2022_EF

**Assessing Multi-Dimensional Impacts of Achieving Sustainability Goals by Projecting the Sustainable Agriculture Matrix into the Future**

Page Kyle<sup>1\*</sup>, Mary Ollenburger<sup>2\*</sup>, Xin Zhang<sup>2\*</sup>, Hassan Niazi<sup>1\*</sup>, Siddarth Durga<sup>1\*</sup>, and Yang Ou<sup>1\*</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Joint Global Change Research Institute, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA

<sup>2 </sup> Appalachian Laboratory, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science (UMCES), Frostburg, MD, USA

\* corresponding author:  pkyle@pnnl.gov

## Abstract
In this paper sustainable agriculture matrix (SAM) is estimated to 2100 in GCAM. We model combinatorial variations of yield intensification, dietary shift, and greenhouse gas mitigation scenarios. Findings include scenarios having significant environmental, economic, and social tradeoffs. Assessment of these tradeoffs in a consistent framework improves the quality of information for decision-making.

## Journal reference
To be provided after publication. 

## Code reference
Code reference for the post-processing module 

%%%%%%%%%%%%
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
`inputs` folder on zenodo. Link here. 


%%%%%%%%%%%
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
`outdata` folder on zenodo. Link here. 

%%%%%%%%%%%
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software

| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| GCAM | v6 | https://github.com/pkyle/gcam-core/tree/gpk/paper/sam | zenodo DOI dataset here |


## Reproduce my experiment
Follow the steps below to set up the directory and recreate the results and figures of this study. Place folders using specified names on specified paths to run the code scripts smoothly. 

1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiment from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download the supporting input data from [Input data](#input-data), and place here: `/inputs/'
3. The `inputs` folder conducts pre-processing of external data which is read by the main `R/` folder of the module. The data in this folder are generic to all scenarios in this study. It isn't expected that users would need to re-run the scripts in the `inputs/R` folder but they are provided just in case.
4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data) and place here: `/outdata/`.
5. Open the `output_processing.Rproj` file (RStudio project file) to access all R code files used to generate the data and figures. Make sure to install and load all R packages required to run scripts in `R` directory. 

The `R` folder contains the scripts, which are described here, in the order that they would be run in order to generate the plots.

| Script Name | Description |
`db_extract.R`: 	 |	This is used to query data from a GCAM output database, saving the output of the queries into `outdata/SAM-matrix.dat`. It is only necessary if the scenarios are being re-run. |
`proj_load.R`: 		 |	This loads the project, creates important strings used in other scripts, and links necessary file paths.  |
`figure2_plots.R`: 	 |	This is used to generate the 4 panels of Figure 2 in the paper |
`maps_indicators.R`: |	This runs all of the data processing code, saves the condensed indicators as `outdata/region_vals.csv`, and generates map figures for each of the 32 GCAM regions. Note, `outdata/region_vals.csv` could be directly read-in to plot all figures in the study (both main text and SI), instead of sourcing all processing scripts (`R/landuse.R`, `R/nutbal.R`, `R/water.R`, `R/ghg_emissions.R`, `R/ag_an_markets.R`, `R/food_afford_refdiet.R`) every time. |
`transformations.R`: |	This generates the radar plots using `outdata/region_vals.csv` |
`extrafigures.R`	 |	This generates plots presented in supplementary information of the paper.|
`probsustainabilityscore.R`	| This script aggregates results in `outdata/region_vals.csv` assuming all indicators and scenarios weigh the same, and produces sustainability score maps as shown in Figure 5 of the paper.		|
`SAM_plots.R`		|	This produces Figure 3 of the paper which shows the fraction of global population experiencing various SAM thresholds. |			 

6. All of the figures are saved in the `figures/` folder.

7. Open an issue on this repository should you experience any difficulties in reproducing the results, or get different outputs to those from the publication. 
